'\" t
.TH QBig5Codec 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QBig5Codec \- Conversion to and from the Big5 encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qbig5codec.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QTextCodec.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QBig5Codec class provides conversion to and from the Big5 encoding.
.PP
QBig5Codec was originally contributed by Ming-Che Chuang <mingche@cobra.ee.ntu.edu.tw> for the Big-5+ encoding, and was included in Qt with the author's permission, and the grateful thanks of the Trolltech team. (Note: Ming-Che's code is QPL'd, as per an mail to info@trolltech.com.)
.PP
However, since Big-5+ was never formally approved, and was never used by anyone, the Taiwan Free Software community and the Li18nux Big5 Standard Subgroup agree that the de-facto standard Big5-ETen (zh_TW.Big5 or zh_TW.TW-Big5) be used instead.
.PP
QBig5Codec is currently implemented as a pure subset of QBig5hkscsCodec, so more fine-tuning is needed to make it identical to the standard Big5 mapping as determined by Li18nux-Big5. See http://www.autrijus.org/xml/ for the draft Big5 (2002) standard.
.PP
James Su <suzhe@turbolinux.com.cn> <suzhe@gnuchina.org> generated the Big5-HKSCS<->Unicode tables with a very space-efficient algorithm. He generously donated his code to glibc in May 2002. Subsequently, James has kindly allowed Anthony Fok <anthony@thizlinux.com> <foka@debian.org> to adapt the code for Qt.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2000 Ming-Che Chuang Copyright (C) 2002 James Su, Turbolinux Inc. Copyright (C) 2002 Anthony Fok, ThizLinux Laboratory Ltd.
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: <ol type=1>
.IP 1
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.IP 2
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.PP
See also Internationalization with Qt.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qbig5codec.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qbig5codec.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
