'\" t
.TH QByteArray 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QByteArray \- Array of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qcstring.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QMemArray<char>.
.PP
Inherited by QBitArray and QCString.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQByteArray\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQByteArray\fR ( int size )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QByteArray \fBqCompress\fR ( const QByteArray & data )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QByteArray \fBqCompress\fR ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QByteArray \fBqUncompress\fR ( const QByteArray & data )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QByteArray \fBqUncompress\fR ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QByteArray class provides an array of bytes.
.PP
The QByteArray class provides an explicitly shared array of bytes. It is useful for manipulating memory areas with custom data. QByteArray is implemented as a QMemArray<char>. See the QMemArray documentation for further information.
.PP
See also Collection Classes and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QByteArray::QByteArray ()"
Constructs an empty QByteArray.
.SH "QByteArray::QByteArray ( int size )"
Constructs a QByteArray of size \fIsize\fR.
.SH RELATED FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QByteArray qCompress ( const QByteArray & data )"
Compresses the array \fIdata\fR and returns the compressed byte array using zlib.
.PP
See also qUncompress().
.SH "QByteArray qCompress ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Compresses the array \fIdata\fR which is \fInbytes\fR long and returns the compressed byte array.
.SH "QByteArray qUncompress ( const QByteArray & data )"
Uncompresses the array \fIdata\fR and returns the uncompressed byte array.
.PP
Returns an empty QByteArray if the input data was corrupt.
.PP
See also qCompress().
.SH "QByteArray qUncompress ( const uchar * data, int nbytes )"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Uncompresses the array \fIdata\fR which is \fInbytes\fR long and returns
the uncompressed byte array.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qbytearray.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qbytearray.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
