'\" t
.TH QCanvasRectangle 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasRectangle \- Rectangle on a QCanvas
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( QCanvas * canvas )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( const QRect & r, QCanvas * canvas )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( int x, int y, int width, int height, QCanvas * canvas )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QCanvasRectangle\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwidth\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBheight\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetSize\fR ( int width, int height )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QSize \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRect \fBrect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBrtti\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdrawShape\fR ( QPainter & p )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QPointArray \fBchunks\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCanvasRectangle class provides a rectangle on a QCanvas.
.PP
This item paints a single rectangle which may have any pen() and brush(), but may not be tilted/rotated. For rotated rectangles, use QCanvasPolygon.
.PP
The rectangle's size and initial position can be set in the constructor. The size can be set or changed later using setSize(). Use height() and width() to retrieve the rectangle's dimensions.
.PP
The rectangle can be drawn on a painter with drawShape().
.PP
Like any other canvas item rectangles can be moved with QCanvasItem::move() and QCanvasItem::moveBy(), or by setting coordinates with QCanvasItem::setX(), QCanvasItem::setY() and QCanvasItem::setZ().
.PP
See also Graphics Classes and Image Processing Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle at position (0,0) with both width and height set to 32 pixels on \fIcanvas\fR.
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( const QRect & r, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle positioned and sized by \fIr\fR on \fIcanvas\fR.
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( int x, int y, int width, int height, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle at position (\fIx\fR, \fIy\fR) and size \fIwidth\fR by \fIheight\fR, on \fIcanvas\fR.
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::~QCanvasRectangle ()"
Destroys the rectangle.
.SH "QPointArray QCanvasRectangle::chunks () const\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Simply calls QCanvasItem::chunks().
.SH "void QCanvasRectangle::drawShape ( QPainter & p )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the rectangle on painter \fIp\fR.
.PP
Example: canvas/canvas.cpp.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::height () const"
Returns the height of the rectangle.
.SH "QRect QCanvasRectangle::rect () const"
Returns the integer-converted x(), y() position and size() of the rectangle as a QRect.
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::rtti () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns 5 (QCanvasItem::Rtti_Rectangle).
.PP
See also QCanvasItem::rtti().
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "void QCanvasRectangle::setSize ( int width, int height )"
Sets the \fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR of the rectangle.
.SH "QSize QCanvasRectangle::size () const"
Returns the width() and height() of the rectangle.
.PP
See also rect() and setSize().
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::width () const"
Returns the width of the rectangle.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvasrectangle.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvasrectangle.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
