'\" t
.TH QCanvasItemList 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasItemList \- List of QCanvasItems
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QValueList<QCanvasItem * >.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QCanvasItemList \fBoperator+\fR ( const QCanvasItemList & l ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCanvasItemList class is a list of QCanvasItems.
.PP
QCanvasItemList is a QValueList of pointers to QCanvasItems. This class is used by some methods in QCanvas that need to return a list of canvas items.
.PP
The QValueList documentation describes how to use this list.
.PP
See also Graphics Classes and Image Processing Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasItemList QCanvasItemList::operator+ ( const QCanvasItemList & l ) const"
Returns the concatenation of this list and list \fIl\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvasitemlist.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvasitemlist.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
