'\" t
.TH QConstString 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QConstString \- String objects using constant Unicode data
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qstring.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQConstString\fR ( const QChar * unicode, uint length )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QConstString\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QString & \fBstring\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QConstString class provides string objects using constant Unicode data.
.PP
In order to minimize copying, highly optimized applications can use QConstString to provide a QString-compatible object from existing Unicode data. It is then the programmer's responsibility to ensure that the Unicode data exists for the entire lifetime of the QConstString object.
.PP
A QConstString is created with the QConstString constructor. The string held by the object can be obtained by calling string().
.PP
See also Text Related Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QConstString::QConstString ( const QChar * unicode, uint length )"
Constructs a QConstString that uses the first \fIlength\fR Unicode characters in the array \fIunicode\fR. Any attempt to modify copies of the string will cause it to create a copy of the data, thus it remains forever unmodified.
.PP
The data in \fIunicode\fR is not copied. The caller must be able to guarantee that \fIunicode\fR will not be deleted or modified.
.SH "QConstString::~QConstString ()"
Destroys the QConstString, creating a copy of the data if other strings are still using it.
.SH "const QString & QConstString::string () const"
Returns a constant string referencing the data passed during
construction.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qconststring.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qconststring.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
