'\" t
.TH QDomNotation 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomNotation \- Represents an XML notation
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNotation\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNotation\fR ( const QDomNotation & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNotation & \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomNotation & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomNotation\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBpublicId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBsystemId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisNotation\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomNotation class represents an XML notation.
.PP
A notation either declares, by name, the format of an unparsed entity (see section 4.7 of the XML 1.0 specification), or is used for formal declaration of processing instruction targets (see section 2.6 of the XML 1.0 specification).
.PP
DOM does not support editing notation nodes; they are therefore read-only.
.PP
A notation node does not have any parent.
.PP
You can retrieve the publicId() and systemId() from a notation node.
.PP
For further information about the Document Object Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/ and http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomNotation::QDomNotation ()"
Constructor.
.SH "QDomNotation::QDomNotation ( const QDomNotation & x )"
Constructs a copy of \fIx\fR.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "QDomNotation::~QDomNotation ()"
Destroys the object and frees its resources.
.SH "bool QDomNotation::isNotation () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomNotation::nodeType () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns NotationNode.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNotation & QDomNotation::operator= ( const QDomNotation & x )"
Assigns \fIx\fR to this DOM notation.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "QString QDomNotation::publicId () const"
Returns the public identifier of this notation.
.SH "QString QDomNotation::systemId () const"
Returns the system identifier of this notation.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomnotation.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomnotation.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
