'\" t
.TH QDomEntityReference 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomEntityReference \- Represents an XML entity reference
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntityReference\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntityReference\fR ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomEntityReference & \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomEntityReference\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEntityReference\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomEntityReference class represents an XML entity reference.
.PP
A QDomEntityReference object may be inserted into the DOM tree when an entity reference is in the source document, or when the user wishes to insert an entity reference.
.PP
Note that character references and references to predefined entities are expanded by the XML processor so that characters are represented by their Unicode equivalent rather than by an entity reference.
.PP
Moreover, the XML processor may completely expand references to entities while building the DOM tree, instead of providing QDomEntityReference objects.
.PP
If it does provide such objects, then for a given entity reference node, it may be that there is no entity node representing the referenced entity; but if such an entity exists, then the child list of the entity reference node is the same as that of the entity node. As with the entity node, all descendents of the entity reference are read-only.
.PP
For further information about the Document Object Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/ and http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomEntityReference::QDomEntityReference ()"
Constructs an empty entity reference. Use QDomDocument::createEntityReference() to create a entity reference with content.
.SH "QDomEntityReference::QDomEntityReference ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
Constructs a copy of \fIx\fR.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use cloneNode().
.SH "QDomEntityReference::~QDomEntityReference ()"
Destroys the object and frees its resources.
.SH "bool QDomEntityReference::isEntityReference () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomEntityReference::nodeType () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCEntityReference\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomEntityReference & QDomEntityReference::operator= ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
Assigns \fIx\fR to this entity reference.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared (shallow copy): modifying one node
will also change the other. If you want to make a deep copy, use
cloneNode().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomentityreference.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomentityreference.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
