'\" t
.TH QFontManager 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFontManager \- Implements font management in Qt/Embedded
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qfontmanager_qws.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQFontManager\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QFontManager\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDiskFont * \fBget\fR ( const QFontDef & f )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBinitialize\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBcleanup\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFontManager class implements font management in Qt/Embedded.
.PP
There is one and only one QFontManager per Qt/Embedded application. The \fCqt_fontmanager\fR global variable points to it. It keeps a list of font factories, a cache of rendered fonts and a list of fonts available on disk. QFontManager is called when a new font needs to be rendered from a Freetype-compatible or BDF font on disk; this only happens if there isn't an appropriate QPF font already available.
.PP
See also Qt/Embedded.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFontManager::QFontManager ()"
Creates a font manager. This method reads in the font definition file from \fCINSTALL/lib/fonts/fontdir\fR, where \fCINSTALL\fR is the directory where Qt/Embedded was installed, and creates a list of QDiskFonts to hold the information in the file. It also constructs any defined font factories.
.SH "QFontManager::~QFontManager ()"
Destroys the QFontManager and sets \fCqt_fontmanager\fR to 0.
.SH "void QFontManager::cleanup ()\fC [static]\fR"
Destroys the font manager
.SH "QDiskFont * QFontManager::get ( const QFontDef & f )"
Returns the QDiskFont that best matches \fIf\fR, based on family, weight, italicity and font size.
.SH "void QFontManager::initialize ()\fC [static]\fR"
Creates a new QFontManager and points \fCqt_fontmanager\fR to it

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qfontmanager.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qfontmanager.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
