'\" t
.TH QGb2312Codec 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGb2312Codec \- Conversion to and from the Chinese GB2312 encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qgb18030codec.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QGb18030Codec.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QGb2312Codec class provides conversion to and from the Chinese GB2312 encoding.
.PP
The GB2312 encoding has been superceded by the GB18030 encoding and GB18030 is backward compatible to GB2312. For this reason the QGb2312Codec class is implemented in terms of the GB18030 codec and uses its 0xA1A1-0xFEFE subset for conversion from and to Unicode.
.PP
The QGb2312Codec is kept mainly for compatibility reasons with older software.
.PP
See also Internationalization with Qt.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qgb2312codec.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qgb2312codec.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
