'\" t
.TH QGLayoutIterator 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGLayoutIterator \- Abstract base class of internal layout iterators
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qlayout.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QGLayoutIterator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QLayoutItem * \fBnext\fR () = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QLayoutItem * \fBcurrent\fR () = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QLayoutItem * \fBtakeCurrent\fR () = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QGLayoutIterator class is an abstract base class of internal layout iterators.
.PP
(This class is \fInot\fR OpenGL related, it just happens to start with the letters QGL...)
.PP
Subclass this class to create a custom layout. The functions that must be implemented are next(), current(), and takeCurrent().
.PP
The QGLayoutIterator implements the functionality of QLayoutIterator. Each subclass of QLayout needs a QGLayoutIterator subclass.
.PP
See also Widget Appearance and Style and Layout Management.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QGLayoutIterator::~QGLayoutIterator ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the iterator
.SH "QLayoutItem * QGLayoutIterator::current ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Implemented in subclasses to return the current item, or 0 if there is no current item.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.SH "QLayoutItem * QGLayoutIterator::next ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Implemented in subclasses to move the iterator to the next item and return that item, or 0 if there is no next item.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.
.SH "QLayoutItem * QGLayoutIterator::takeCurrent ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Implemented in subclasses. The function must remove the current item from the layout without deleting it, move the iterator to the next item and return the removed item, or 0 if no item was removed.
.PP
Examples:
.)l customlayout/border.cpp, customlayout/card.cpp, and customlayout/flow.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qglayoutiterator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qglayoutiterator.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
