'\" t
.TH QHttpResponseHeader 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHttpResponseHeader \- Response header information for HTTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qhttp.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QHttpHeader.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHttpResponseHeader\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHttpResponseHeader\fR ( const QHttpResponseHeader & header )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBstatusCode\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBreasonPhrase\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBmajorVersion\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBminorVersion\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QHttpResponseHeader class contains response header information for HTTP.
.PP
This class is used by the QHttp class to report the header information that the client received from the server.
.PP
HTTP responses have a status code that indicates the status of the response. This code is a 3-digit integer result code (for details see to RFC 1945). In addition to the status code, you can also specify a human-readable text that describes the reason for the code ("reason phrase"). This class allows you to get the status code and the reason phrase.
.PP
See also QHttpRequestHeader, QHttp, and Input/Output and Networking.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHttpResponseHeader::QHttpResponseHeader ()"
Constructs an empty HTTP response header.
.SH "QHttpResponseHeader::QHttpResponseHeader ( const QHttpResponseHeader & header )"
Constructs a copy of \fIheader\fR.
.SH "int QHttpResponseHeader::majorVersion () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the major protocol-version of the HTTP response header.
.PP
See also minorVersion(), statusCode(), and reasonPhrase().
.PP
Reimplemented from QHttpHeader.
.SH "int QHttpResponseHeader::minorVersion () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the minor protocol-version of the HTTP response header.
.PP
See also majorVersion(), statusCode(), and reasonPhrase().
.PP
Reimplemented from QHttpHeader.
.SH "QString QHttpResponseHeader::reasonPhrase () const"
Returns the reason phrase of the HTTP response header.
.PP
See also statusCode(), majorVersion(), and minorVersion().
.SH "int QHttpResponseHeader::statusCode () const"
Returns the status code of the HTTP response header.
.PP
See also reasonPhrase(), majorVersion(), and minorVersion().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qhttpresponseheader.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qhttpresponseheader.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
