'\" t
.TH QIconDragItem 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIconDragItem \- Encapsulates a drag item
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qiconview.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQIconDragItem\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QIconDragItem\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QByteArray \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const QByteArray & d )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIconDragItem class encapsulates a drag item.
.PP
The QIconDrag class uses a list of QIconDragItems to support drag and drop operations.
.PP
In practice a QIconDragItem object (or an object of a class derived from QIconDragItem) is created for each icon view item which is dragged. Each of these QIconDragItems is stored in a QIconDrag object.
.PP
See QIconView::dragObject() for more information.
.PP
See the fileiconview/qfileiconview.cpp and iconview/simple_dd/main.cpp examples.
.PP
See also Drag And Drop Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIconDragItem::QIconDragItem ()"
Constructs a QIconDragItem with no data.
.SH "QIconDragItem::~QIconDragItem ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "QByteArray QIconDragItem::data () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the data contained in the QIconDragItem.
.SH "void QIconDragItem::setData ( const QByteArray & d )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Sets the data for the QIconDragItem to the data stored in the QByteArray \fId\fR.
.PP
Example: fileiconview/qfileiconview.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qicondragitem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qicondragitem.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
