'\" t
.TH QIconFactory 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIconFactory \- Used to create pixmaps for a QIconSet
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qiconset.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQIconFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QIconFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QPixmap * \fBcreatePixmap\fR ( const QIconSet & iconSet, QIconSet::Size size, QIconSet::Mode mode, QIconSet::State state )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetAutoDelete\fR ( bool autoDelete )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBautoDelete\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QIconFactory * \fBdefaultFactory\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBinstallDefaultFactory\fR ( QIconFactory * factory )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIconFactory class is used to create pixmaps for a QIconSet.
.PP
By reimplementing createPixmap(), you can override QIconSet's default algorithm for computing pixmaps not supplied by the user.
.PP
Call setAutoDelete(TRUE) if you want the factory to automatically delete itself when it is no longer needed by QIconSet.
.PP
See also QIconSet and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIconFactory::QIconFactory ()"
Constructs an icon factory.
.SH "QIconFactory::~QIconFactory ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the object and frees any allocated resources.
.SH "bool QIconFactory::autoDelete () const"
Returns TRUE if auto-deletion is enabled; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also setAutoDelete().
.SH "QPixmap * QIconFactory::createPixmap ( const QIconSet & iconSet, QIconSet::Size size, QIconSet::Mode mode, QIconSet::State state )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Ceates a pixmap for \fIiconSet\fR with a certain \fIsize\fR, \fImode\fR, and \fIstate\fR. Returns 0 if the default QIconSet algorithm should be used to create a pixmap that wasn't supplied by the user.
.PP
It is the caller's responsibility to delete the returned pixmap.
.PP
The default implementation always returns 0.
.SH "QIconFactory * QIconFactory::defaultFactory ()\fC [static]\fR"
Returns the default icon factory.
.PP
See also installDefaultFactory().
.SH "void QIconFactory::installDefaultFactory ( QIconFactory * factory )\fC [static]\fR"
Replaces the default icon factory with \fIfactory\fR.
.SH "void QIconFactory::setAutoDelete ( bool autoDelete )"
If \fIautoDelete\fR is TRUE, sets the icon factory to automatically delete itself when it is no longer referenced by any QIconSet and isn't the default factory. If \fIautoDelete\fR is FALSE (the default) auto-deletion is disabled.
.PP
See also autoDelete() and defaultFactory().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qiconfactory.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qiconfactory.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
