'\" t
.TH QIconDragEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIconDragEvent \- Signals that a main icon drag has begun
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQIconDragEvent\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisAccepted\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBaccept\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBignore\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIconDragEvent class signals that a main icon drag has begun.
.PP
Icon drag events are sent to widgets when the main icon of a window has been dragged away. On Mac OS X this is fired when the proxy icon of a window is dragged off titlebar, in response to this event is is normal to begin using drag and drop.
.PP
See also Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIconDragEvent::QIconDragEvent ()"
Constructs an icon drag event object with the accept parameter flag set to FALSE.
.PP
See also accept().
.SH "void QIconDragEvent::accept ()"
Sets the accept flag of the icon drag event object.
.PP
Setting the accept flag indicates that the receiver of this event has started a drag and drop oeration.
.PP
The accept flag is \fInot\fR set by default.
.PP
See also ignore() and QWidget::hide().
.SH "void QIconDragEvent::ignore ()"
Clears the accept flag of the icon drag object.
.PP
Clearing the accept flag indicates that the receiver of this event has not handled the icon drag as a result other events can be sent.
.PP
The icon drag event is constructed with the accept flag cleared.
.PP
See also accept().
.SH "bool QIconDragEvent::isAccepted () const"
Returns TRUE if the receiver of the event has started a drag and drop operation; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
See also accept() and ignore().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qicondragevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qicondragevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
