'\" t
.TH QListBoxPixmap 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QListBoxPixmap \- List box items with a pixmap and optional text
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const QPixmap & pixmap )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap, QListBoxItem * after )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text, QListBoxItem * after )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QListBoxPixmap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QPixmap * \fBpixmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBheight\fR ( const QListBox * lb ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBwidth\fR ( const QListBox * lb ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaint\fR ( QPainter * painter )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QListBoxPixmap class provides list box items with a pixmap and optional text.
.PP
Items of this class are drawn with the pixmap on the left with the optional text to the right of the pixmap.
.PP
See also QListBox, QListBoxItem, and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap, QListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR. The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter\fR, or at the beginning if \fIafter\fR is 0.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the text \fItext\fR.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the text to \fItext\fR.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text, QListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in list box \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpix\fR and the string \fItext\fR. The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter\fR, or at the beginning if \fIafter\fR is 0.
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::~QListBoxPixmap ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::height ( const QListBox * lb ) const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the height of the pixmap in list box \fIlb\fR.
.PP
See also paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "void QListBoxPixmap::paint ( QPainter * painter )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the pixmap using \fIpainter\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "const QPixmap * QListBoxPixmap::pixmap () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the pixmap associated with the item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::width ( const QListBox * lb ) const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the width of the pixmap plus some margin in list box \fIlb\fR.
.PP
See also paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qlistboxpixmap.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qlistboxpixmap.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
