'\" t
.TH QMetaObject 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMetaObject \- Meta information about Qt objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qmetaobject.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBclassName\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBsuperClassName\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QMetaObject * \fBsuperClass\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBinherits\fR ( const char * clname ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBnumSlots\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBnumSignals\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QStrList \fBslotNames\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QStrList \fBsignalNames\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBnumClassInfo\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QClassInfo * \fBclassInfo\fR ( int index, bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBclassInfo\fR ( const char * name, bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QMetaProperty * \fBproperty\fR ( int index, bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBfindProperty\fR ( const char * name, bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QStrList \fBpropertyNames\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBnumProperties\fR ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMetaObject class contains meta information about Qt objects.
.PP
The Meta Object System in Qt is responsible for the signals and slots inter-object communication mechanism, runtime type information and the property system. All meta information in Qt is kept in a single instance of QMetaObject per class.
.PP
This class is not normally required for application programming. But if you write meta applications, such as scripting engines or GUI builders, you might find these functions useful:
.TP
className() to get the name of a class.
.TP
superClassName() to get the name of the superclass.
.TP
inherits(), the function called by QObject::inherits().
.TP
superClass() to access the superclass's meta object.
.TP
numSlots(), numSignals(), slotNames(), and signalNames() to get information about a class's signals and slots.
.TP
property() and propertyNames() to obtain information about a class's properties.
.PP
Classes may have a list of name-value pairs of class information. The number of pairs is returned by numClassInfo(), and values are returned by classInfo().
.PP
See also moc (Meta Object Compiler) and Object Model.
.PP
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "const QClassInfo * QMetaObject::classInfo ( int index, bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the class information with index \fIindex\fR or 0 if no such information exists.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited class information is included.
.SH "const char * QMetaObject::classInfo ( const char * name, bool super = FALSE ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Returns the class information with name \fIname\fR or 0 if no such information exists.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited class information is included.
.SH "const char * QMetaObject::className () const"
Returns the class name.
.PP
See also QObject::className() and superClassName().
.SH "int QMetaObject::findProperty ( const char * name, bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the index for the property with name \fIname\fR or -1 if no such property exists.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited properties are included.
.PP
See also property() and propertyNames().
.SH "bool QMetaObject::inherits ( const char * clname ) const"
Returns TRUE if this class inherits \fIclname\fR within the meta object inheritance chain; otherwise returns FALSE.
.PP
(A class is considered to inherit itself.)
.SH "int QMetaObject::numClassInfo ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the number of items of class information available for this class.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited class information is included.
.SH "int QMetaObject::numProperties ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the number of properties for this class.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited properties are included.
.PP
See also propertyNames().
.SH "int QMetaObject::numSignals ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the number of signals for this class.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited signals are included.
.PP
See also signalNames().
.SH "int QMetaObject::numSlots ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the number of slots for this class.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited slots are included.
.PP
See also slotNames().
.SH "const QMetaProperty * QMetaObject::property ( int index, bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns the property meta data for the property at index \fIindex\fR or 0 if no such property exists.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited properties are included.
.PP
See also propertyNames().
.SH "QStrList QMetaObject::propertyNames ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns a list with the names of all this class's properties.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited properties are included.
.PP
See also property().
.SH "QStrList QMetaObject::signalNames ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns a list with the names of all this class's signals.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited signals are included.
.SH "QStrList QMetaObject::slotNames ( bool super = FALSE ) const"
Returns a list with the names of all this class's slots.
.PP
If \fIsuper\fR is TRUE, inherited slots are included.
.PP
See also numSlots().
.SH "QMetaObject * QMetaObject::superClass () const"
Returns the meta object of the super class or 0 if there is no such object.
.SH "const char * QMetaObject::superClassName () const"
Returns the class name of the superclass or 0 if there is no superclass in the QObject hierachy.
.PP
See also className().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmetaobject.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmetaobject.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
