'\" t
.TH QMotifStyle 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMotifStyle \- Motif look and feel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qmotifstyle.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCommonStyle.
.PP
Inherited by QCDEStyle, QMotifPlusStyle, and QSGIStyle.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMotifStyle\fR ( bool useHighlightCols = FALSE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetUseHighlightColors\fR ( bool arg )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBuseHighlightColors\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMotifStyle class provides Motif look and feel.
.PP
This class implements the Motif look and feel. It closely resembles the original Motif look as defined by the Open Group, but with some minor improvements. The Motif style is Qt's default GUI style on UNIX platforms.
.PP
See also Widget Appearance and Style.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMotifStyle::QMotifStyle ( bool useHighlightCols = FALSE )"
Constructs a QMotifStyle.
.PP
If \fIuseHighlightCols\fR is FALSE (the default), the style will polish the application's color palette to emulate the Motif way of highlighting, which is a simple inversion between the base and the text color.
.SH "void QMotifStyle::setUseHighlightColors ( bool arg )"
If \fIarg\fR is FALSE, the style will polish the application's color palette to emulate the Motif way of highlighting, which is a simple inversion between the base and the text color.
.PP
The effect will show up the next time an application palette is set via QApplication::setPalette(). The current color palette of the application remains unchanged.
.PP
See also QStyle::polish().
.SH "bool QMotifStyle::useHighlightColors () const"
Returns TRUE if the style treats the highlight colors of the
palette in a Motif-like manner, which is a simple inversion
between the base and the text color; otherwise returns FALSE. The
default is FALSE.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmotifstyle.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmotifstyle.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
