'\" t
.TH QMotifWidget 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMotifWidget \- The QWidget API for Xt/Motif widgets
.SH SYNOPSIS
This class is part of the \fBQt Motif Extension\fR.
.PP
\fC#include <qmotifwidget.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMotifWidget\fR ( QWidget * parent, WidgetClass widgetclass, ArgList args = NULL, Cardinal argcount = 0, const char * name = 0, WFlags flags = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QMotifWidget\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Widget \fBmotifWidget\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBx11Event\fR ( XEvent * event )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt Motif Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
The QMotifWidget class provides the QWidget API for Xt/Motif widgets.
.PP
QMotifWidget exists to provide a QWidget that can act as a parent for any Xt/Motif widget. Since the QMotifWidget is a proper QWidget, it can be used as a top-level widget (e.g. 0 parent) or as a child of any other QWidget. Note: Since QMotifWidget acts as a parent for Xt/Motif widgets, you should not create QWidgets with a QMotifWidget parent.
.PP
An Xt/Motif widget with a top-level QMotifWidget parent can begin using the standard Qt dialogs and custom QDialogs while keeping the main Xt/Motif interface of the application. Using a QMotifWidget as the parent for the various QDialogs will ensure that modality and stacking works properly throughout the entire application.
.PP
Applications moving to Qt may have custom Xt/Motif widgets that will take time to rewrite with Qt. Such applications can use these custom widgets as QMotifWidget with QWidget parents. This allows the application's interface to be replaced gradually.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR QMotifWidget uses the X11 window ID of the Motif widget directly, instead of creating its own. Because ot this, QWidget::reparent() will not work. This includes the functions QWidget::showFullScreen() and QWidget::showNormal(), which use QWidget::reparent().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMotifWidget::QMotifWidget ( QWidget * parent, WidgetClass widgetclass, ArgList args = NULL, Cardinal argcount = 0, const char * name = 0, WFlags flags = 0 )"
Creates a QMotifWidget of the given \fIwidgetclass\fR as a child of \fIparent\fR, with the name \fIname\fR and widget flags \fIflags\fR.
.PP
The \fIargs\fR and \fIargcount\fR arguments are passed on to XtCreateWidget.
.PP
The motifWidget() function returns the resulting Xt/Motif widget. This widget can be used as a parent for any other Xt/Motif widget.
.PP
If \fIparent\fR is a QMotifWidget, the Xt/Motif widget is created as a child of the parent's motifWidget(). If &#92; parent is 0 or a normal QWidget, the Xt/Motif widget is created as a child of a special TopLevelShell widget. Xt/Motif widgets can use this special TopLevelShell parent as the parent for existing Xt/Motif dialogs or QMotifDialogs.
.SH "QMotifWidget::~QMotifWidget ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the QMotifWidget. The special TopLevelShell is also destroyed, if it was created during construction.
.SH "Widget QMotifWidget::motifWidget () const"
Returns the embedded Xt/Motif widget. If a Shell widget was
created by the constructor, you can access it with XtParent().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmotifwidget.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmotifwidget.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
