'\" t
.TH QNPStream 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QNPStream \- Stream of data provided to a QNPInstance by the browser
.SH SYNOPSIS
This class is part of the \fBQt Netscape Extension\fR.
.PP
\fC#include <qnp.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QNPStream\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBurl\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBend\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBlastModified\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char * \fBtype\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBseekable\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBokay\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcomplete\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBrequestRead\fR ( int offset, uint length )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwrite\fR ( int len, void * buffer )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QNPInstance * \fBinstance\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQNPStream\fR ( QNPInstance * in, const char * mt, _NPStream * st, bool se )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt Netscape Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
The QNPStream class provides a stream of data provided to a QNPInstance by the browser.
.PP
Note that this is neither a QTextStream nor a QDataStream.
.PP
See also QNPInstance::write() and QNPInstance::newStreamCreated().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QNPStream::QNPStream ( QNPInstance * in, const char * mt, _NPStream * st, bool se )"
Creates a stream. Plugins should not call this; they should call QNPInstance::newStream() if they need a stream.
.PP
Takes a QNPInstance \fIin\fR, MIME type \fImt\fR, a pointer to an _NPStream \fIst\fR and a seekable flag \fIse\fR.
.SH "QNPStream::~QNPStream ()"
Destroys the stream.
.SH "bool QNPStream::complete () const"
Returns TRUE if the stream has received all the data from the source; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "uint QNPStream::end () const"
Returns the length of the stream in bytes. The function might return 0 for streams of unknown length.
.SH "QNPInstance * QNPStream::instance ()"
Returns the QNPInstance for which this stream was created.
.SH "uint QNPStream::lastModified () const"
Returns the time when the source of the stream was last modified.
.SH "bool QNPStream::okay () const"
Returns TRUE if no errors have occurred on the stream; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "void QNPStream::requestRead ( int offset, uint length )"
Requests the section of the stream, of \fIlength\fR bytes from \fIoffset\fR, be sent to the QNPInstance::write() function of the instance() of this stream.
.SH "bool QNPStream::seekable () const"
Returns TRUE if the stream is seekable; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "const char * QNPStream::type () const"
Returns the MIME type of the stream.
.SH "const char * QNPStream::url () const"
Returns the URL from which the stream was created.
.SH "int QNPStream::write ( int len, void * buffer )"
Writes \fIlen\fR bytes from \fIbuffer\fR \fIto\fR the stream.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qnpstream.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qnpstream.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
