'\" t
.TH QObjectListIterator 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QObjectListIterator \- Iterator for QObjectLists
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qobjectlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QPtrListIterator<QObject>.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQObjectListIterator\fR ( const QObjectList & list )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QObjectListIterator & \fBoperator=\fR ( const QObjectListIterator & it )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QObjectListIterator class provides an iterator for QObjectLists.
.PP
A QObjectListIterator iterator is a QPtrListIterator<QObject>.
.PP
See QObject::queryList() for an example of use.
.PP
See also QObjectList, Collection Classes, and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QObjectListIterator::QObjectListIterator ( const QObjectList & list )"
Constructs an iterator for \fIlist\fR. The current iterator item is set to point on the first item in the \fIlist\fR.
.SH "QObjectListIterator & QObjectListIterator::operator= ( const QObjectListIterator & it )"
Assignment. Makes a copy of the iterator \fIit\fR and returns a
reference to this iterator.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qobjectlistiterator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qobjectlistiterator.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
