'\" t
.TH QResizeEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QResizeEvent \- Event parameters for resize events
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQResizeEvent\fR ( const QSize & size, const QSize & oldSize )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize & \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize & \fBoldSize\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QResizeEvent class contains event parameters for resize events.
.PP
Resize events are sent to widgets that have been resized.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::resizeEvent() receives resize events.
.PP
See also QWidget::size, QWidget::geometry, and Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QResizeEvent::QResizeEvent ( const QSize & size, const QSize & oldSize )"
Constructs a resize event with the new and old widget sizes, \fIsize\fR and \fIoldSize\fR respectively.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::oldSize () const"
Returns the old size of the widget.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::size () const"
Returns the new size of the widget, which is the same as QWidget::size().
.PP
Examples:
.)l chart/canvasview.cpp and life/life.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qresizeevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qresizeevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
