'\" t
.TH QShowEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QShowEvent \- Event which is sent when a widget is shown
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQShowEvent\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QShowEvent class provides an event which is sent when a widget is shown.
.PP
There are two kinds of show events: show events caused by the window system (spontaneous) and internal show events. Spontaneous show events are sent just after the window system shows the window, including after a top-level window has been shown (un-iconified) by the user. Internal show events are delivered just before the widget becomes visible.
.PP
See also QHideEvent and Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QShowEvent::QShowEvent ()"
Constructs a QShowEvent.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qshowevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qshowevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
