'\" t
.TH QSizeGrip 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSizeGrip \- Corner-grip for resizing a top-level window
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qsizegrip.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSizeGrip\fR ( QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSizeGrip\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaintEvent\fR ( QPaintEvent * e )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBmousePressEvent\fR ( QMouseEvent * e )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBmouseMoveEvent\fR ( QMouseEvent * e )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSizeGrip class provides a corner-grip for resizing a top-level window.
.PP
This widget works like the standard Windows resize handle. In the X11 version this resize handle generally works differently from the one provided by the system; we hope to reduce this difference in the future.
.PP
Put this widget anywhere in a widget tree and the user can use it to resize the top-level window. Generally, this should be in the lower right-hand corner. Note that QStatusBar already uses this widget, so if you have a status bar (e.g. you are using QMainWindow), then you don't need to use this widget explicitly.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP

.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also QStatusBar, Widget Appearance and Style, Main Window and Related Classes, and Basic Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSizeGrip::QSizeGrip ( QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a resize corner called \fIname\fR, as a child widget of \fIparent\fR.
.SH "QSizeGrip::~QSizeGrip ()"
Destroys the size grip.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::mouseMoveEvent ( QMouseEvent * e )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Resizes the top-level widget containing this widget. The event is in \fIe\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::mousePressEvent ( QMouseEvent * e )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Primes the resize operation. The event is in \fIe\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::paintEvent ( QPaintEvent * e )\fC [virtual protected]\fR"
Paints the resize grip. Resize grips are usually rendered as small diagonal textured lines in the lower-right corner. The event is in \fIe\fR.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "QSize QSizeGrip::sizeHint () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the size grip's size hint; this is a small size.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qsizegrip.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qsizegrip.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
