'\" t
.TH QSpacerItem 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSpacerItem \- Blank space in a layout
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QLayoutItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSpacerItem\fR ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData = QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData = QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBchangeSize\fR ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData = QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData = QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBminimumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBmaximumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSizePolicy::ExpandData \fBexpanding\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const QRect & r )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSpacerItem class provides blank space in a layout.
.PP
This class is used by custom layouts.
.PP
See also QLayout, QLayout::spacerItem(), Widget Appearance and Style, and Layout Management.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSpacerItem::QSpacerItem ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData = QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData = QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Constructs a spacer item with preferred width \fIw\fR, preferred height \fIh\fR, horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData\fR.
.PP
The default values provide a gap that is able to stretch if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "void QSpacerItem::changeSize ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData = QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData = QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Changes this spacer item to have preferred width \fIw\fR, preferred height \fIh\fR, horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData\fR.
.PP
The default values provide a gap that is able to stretch if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "QSizePolicy::ExpandData QSpacerItem::expanding () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the direction in which this spacer item will expand.
.PP
See also QSizePolicy::ExpandData.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "bool QSpacerItem::isEmpty () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE because a spacer item never contains widgets.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::maximumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the maximum size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::minimumSize () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the minimum size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "void QSpacerItem::setGeometry ( const QRect & r )\fC [virtual]\fR"
Stores the spacer item's rect \fIr\fR so that it can be returned by geometry().
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::sizeHint () const\fC [virtual]\fR"
Returns the preferred size of this spacer item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qspaceritem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qspaceritem.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
