'\" t
.TH QStrIList 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QStrIList \- Doubly-linked list of char* with case-insensitive comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qstrlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStrList.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQStrIList\fR ( bool deepCopies = TRUE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QStrIList\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QStrIList class provides a doubly-linked list of char* with case-insensitive comparison.
.PP
This class is a QPtrList<char> instance (a list of char*).
.PP
QStrIList is identical to QStrList except that the virtual compareItems() function is reimplemented to compare strings case-insensitively. The inSort() function inserts strings in a sorted order. In general it is fastest to insert the strings as they come and sort() at the end; inSort() is useful when you just have to add a few extra strings to an already sorted list.
.PP
The QStrListIterator class works for QStrIList.
.PP
See also QStringList, Collection Classes, and Non-GUI Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QStrIList::QStrIList ( bool deepCopies = TRUE )"
Constructs a list of strings. Will make deep copies of all inserted strings if \fIdeepCopies\fR is TRUE, or use shallow copies if \fIdeepCopies\fR is FALSE.
.SH "QStrIList::~QStrIList ()"
Destroys the list. All strings are removed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qstrilist.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qstrilist.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
