'\" t
.TH QStylePlugin 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QStylePlugin \- Abstract base for custom QStyle plugins
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qstyleplugin.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQStylePlugin\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QStylePlugin\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QStringList \fBkeys\fR () const = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QStyle * \fBcreate\fR ( const QString & key ) = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QStylePlugin class provides an abstract base for custom QStyle plugins.
.PP
The style plugin is a simple plugin interface that makes it easy to create custom styles that can be loaded dynamically into applications with a QStyleFactory.
.PP
Writing a style plugin is achieved by subclassing this base class, reimplementing the pure virtual functions keys() and create(), and exporting the class with the \fCQ_EXPORT_PLUGIN\fR macro. See the plugins documentation for an example.
.PP
See also Plugins.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QStylePlugin::QStylePlugin ()"
Constructs a style plugin. This is invoked automatically by the \fCQ_EXPORT_PLUGIN\fR macro.
.SH "QStylePlugin::~QStylePlugin ()"
Destroys the style plugin.
.PP
You never have to call this explicitly. Qt destroys a plugin automatically when it is no longer used.
.SH "QStyle * QStylePlugin::create ( const QString & key )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Creates and returns a QStyle object for the style key \fIkey\fR. The style key is usually the class name of the required style.
.PP
See also keys().
.SH "QStringList QStylePlugin::keys () const\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Returns the list of style keys this plugin supports.
.PP
These keys are usually the class names of the custom styles that are implemented in the plugin.
.PP
See also create().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qstyleplugin.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qstyleplugin.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
