'\" t
.TH QTab 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTab \- The structures in a QTabBar
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qtabbar.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits Qt.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTab\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR ( const QString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR ( const QIconSet & icon, const QString & text = QString::null )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetText\fR ( const QString & text )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtext\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetIconSet\fR ( const QIconSet & icon )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QIconSet * \fBiconSet\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetRect\fR ( const QRect & rect )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRect \fBrect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetEnabled\fR ( bool enable )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisEnabled\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetIdentifier\fR ( int i )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBidentifier\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTab class provides the structures in a QTabBar.
.PP
This class is used for custom QTabBar tab headings.
.PP
See also QTabBar and Advanced Widgets.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTab::QTab ()"
Constructs an empty tab. All fields are set to empty.
.SH "QTab::QTab ( const QString & text )"
Constructs a tab with the text \fItext\fR.
.SH "QTab::QTab ( const QIconSet & icon, const QString & text = QString::null )"
Constructs a tab with an \fIicon\fR and the text, \fItext\fR.
.SH "QTab::~QTab ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the tab and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "QIconSet * QTab::iconSet () const"
Return the QIconSet of the QTab.
.SH "int QTab::identifier () const"
Return the QTab's identifier.
.SH "bool QTab::isEnabled () const"
Returns TRUE if the QTab is enabled; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "QRect QTab::rect () const"
Return the QRect for the QTab.
.SH "void QTab::setEnabled ( bool enable )"
If \fIenable\fR is TRUE enable the QTab, otherwise disable it.
.SH "void QTab::setIconSet ( const QIconSet & icon )"
Sets the tab's iconset to \fIicon\fR
.SH "void QTab::setIdentifier ( int i )"
Set the identifier for the QTab to \fIi\fR. Each QTab's identifier within a QTabBar must be unique.
.SH "void QTab::setRect ( const QRect & rect )"
Set the QTab QRect to \fIrect\fR.
.SH "void QTab::setText ( const QString & text )"
Sets the text of the tab to \fItext\fR.
.SH "QString QTab::text () const"
Returns the text of the QTab label.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtab.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtab.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
