'\" t
.TH QTextIStream 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextIStream \- Convenience class for input streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qtextstream.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QTextStream.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextIStream\fR ( const QString * s )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextIStream\fR ( QByteArray ba )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextIStream\fR ( FILE * f )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextIStream class is a convenience class for input streams.
.PP
This class provides a shorthand for creating simple input QTextStreams without having to pass a \fImode\fR argument to the constructor.
.PP
This class makes it easy, for example, to write things like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    QString data = "123 456";
.br
    int a, b;
.br
    QTextIStream(&data) >> a >> b;
.br
.fi
.PP
See also QTextOStream, Input/Output and Networking, and Text Related Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextIStream::QTextIStream ( const QString * s )"
Constructs a stream to read from the string \fIs\fR.
.SH "QTextIStream::QTextIStream ( QByteArray ba )"
Constructs a stream to read from the array \fIba\fR.
.SH "QTextIStream::QTextIStream ( FILE * f )"
Constructs a stream to read from the file \fIf\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextistream.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextistream.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
