'\" t
.TH QTextEncoder 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextEncoder \- State-based encoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qtextcodec.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTextEncoder\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QCString \fBfromUnicode\fR ( const QString & uc, int & lenInOut ) = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextEncoder class provides a state-based encoder.
.PP
The encoder converts Unicode into another format, remembering any state that is required between calls.
.PP
See also QTextCodec::makeEncoder() and Internationalization with Qt.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextEncoder::~QTextEncoder ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the encoder.
.SH "QCString QTextEncoder::fromUnicode ( const QString & uc, int & lenInOut )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Converts \fIlenInOut\fR characters (not bytes) from \fIuc\fR, producing a QCString. \fIlenInOut\fR will be set to the length of the result (in bytes).
.PP
The encoder is free to record state to use when subsequent calls
are made to this function (for example, it might change modes with
escape sequences if needed during the encoding of one string, then
assume that mode applies when a subsequent call begins).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextencoder.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextencoder.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
