'\" t
.TH QTextDecoder 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextDecoder \- State-based decoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qtextcodec.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTextDecoder\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBtoUnicode\fR ( const char * chars, int len ) = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextDecoder class provides a state-based decoder.
.PP
The decoder converts a text format into Unicode, remembering any state that is required between calls.
.PP
See also QTextCodec::makeEncoder() and Internationalization with Qt.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextDecoder::~QTextDecoder ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the decoder.
.SH "QString QTextDecoder::toUnicode ( const char * chars, int len )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Converts the first \fIlen\fR bytes in \fIchars\fR to Unicode, returning the result.
.PP
If not all characters are used (e.g. if only part of a multi-byte
encoding is at the end of the characters), the decoder remembers
enough state to continue with the next call to this function.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextdecoder.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextdecoder.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
