'\" t
.TH QTextCodecPlugin 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextCodecPlugin \- Abstract base for custom QTextCodec plugins
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qtextcodecplugin.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextCodecPlugin\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QTextCodecPlugin\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QStringList \fBnames\fR () const = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QTextCodec * \fBcreateForName\fR ( const QString & name ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QValueList<int> \fBmibEnums\fR () const = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QTextCodec * \fBcreateForMib\fR ( int mib ) = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextCodecPlugin class provides an abstract base for custom QTextCodec plugins.
.PP
The text codec plugin is a simple plugin interface that makes it easy to create custom text codecs that can be loaded dynamically into applications.
.PP
Writing a text codec plugin is achieved by subclassing this base class, reimplementing the pure virtual functions names(), createForName(), mibEnums() and createForMib(), and exporting the class with the \fCQ_EXPORT_PLUGIN\fR macro. See the Qt Plugins documentation for details.
.PP
See the IANA character-sets encoding file for more information on mime names and mib enums.
.PP
See also Plugins.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextCodecPlugin::QTextCodecPlugin ()"
Constructs a text codec plugin. This is invoked automatically by the \fCQ_EXPORT_PLUGIN\fR macro.
.SH "QTextCodecPlugin::~QTextCodecPlugin ()"
Destroys the text codec plugin.
.PP
You never have to call this explicitly. Qt destroys a plugin automatically when it is no longer used.
.SH "QTextCodec * QTextCodecPlugin::createForMib ( int mib )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Creates a QTextCodec object for the mib enum \fImib\fR.
.PP
(See the IANA character-sets encoding file for more information)
.PP
See also mibEnums().
.SH "QTextCodec * QTextCodecPlugin::createForName ( const QString & name )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Creates a QTextCodec object for the codec called \fIname\fR.
.PP
See also names().
.SH "QValueList<int> QTextCodecPlugin::mibEnums () const\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Returns the list of mib enums supported by this plugin.
.PP
See also createForMib().
.SH "QStringList QTextCodecPlugin::names () const\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
Returns the list of mime names supported by this plugin.
.PP
See also createForName().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextcodecplugin.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextcodecplugin.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
