'\" t
.TH QTimerEvent 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTimerEvent \- Parameters that describe a timer event
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTimerEvent\fR ( int timerId )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBtimerId\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTimerEvent class contains parameters that describe a timer event.
.PP
Timer events are sent at regular intervals to objects that have started one or more timers. Each timer has a unique identifier. A timer is started with QObject::startTimer().
.PP
The QTimer class provides a high-level programming interface that uses signals instead of events. It also provides one-shot timers.
.PP
The event handler QObject::timerEvent() receives timer events.
.PP
See also QTimer, QObject::timerEvent(), QObject::startTimer(), QObject::killTimer(), QObject::killTimers(), and Event Classes.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTimerEvent::QTimerEvent ( int timerId )"
Constructs a timer event object with the timer identifier set to \fItimerId\fR.
.SH "int QTimerEvent::timerId () const"
Returns the unique timer identifier, which is the same identifier as returned from QObject::startTimer().
.PP
Example: dclock/dclock.cpp.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtimerevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtimerevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
