'\" t
.TH QToolTipGroup 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QToolTipGroup \- Collects tool tips into related groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qtooltip.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQToolTipGroup\fR ( QObject * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QToolTipGroup\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdelay\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBenabled\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Slots"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetDelay\fR ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetEnabled\fR ( bool )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBshowTip\fR ( const QString & longText )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremoveTip\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Properties"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdelay\fR - whether the display of the group text is delayed"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBenabled\fR - whether tool tips in the group are enabled"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QToolTipGroup class collects tool tips into related groups.
.PP
Tool tips can display \fItwo\fR texts: one in the tip and (optionally) one that is typically in a status bar. QToolTipGroup provides a way to link tool tips to this status bar.
.PP
QToolTipGroup has practically no API; it is only used as an argument to QToolTip's member functions, for example like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
        QToolTipGroup * grp = new QToolTipGroup( this, "tool tip relay" );
.br
        connect( grp, SIGNAL(showTip(const QString&)),
.br
                 myLabel, SLOT(setText(const QString&)) );
.br
        connect( grp, SIGNAL(removeTip()),
.br
                 myLabel, SLOT(clear()) );
.br
        QToolTip::add( giraffeButton, "feed giraffe",
.br
                       grp, "Give the giraffe a meal" );
.br
        QToolTip::add( gorillaButton, "feed gorilla",
.br
                       grp, "Give the gorilla a meal" );
.br
.fi
.PP
This example makes the object myLabel (which you must supply) display (one assumes, though you can make myLabel do anything, of course) the strings "Give the giraffe a meal" and "Give the gorilla a meal" while the relevant tool tips are being displayed.
.PP
Deleting a tool tip group removes the tool tips in it.
.PP
See also Help System.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QToolTipGroup::QToolTipGroup ( QObject * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a tool tip group called \fIname\fR, with parent \fIparent\fR.
.SH "QToolTipGroup::~QToolTipGroup ()"
Destroys this tool tip group and all tool tips in it.
.SH "bool QToolTipGroup::delay () const"
Returns TRUE if the display of the group text is delayed; otherwise returns FALSE. See the "delay" property for details.
.SH "bool QToolTipGroup::enabled () const"
Returns TRUE if tool tips in the group are enabled; otherwise returns FALSE. See the "enabled" property for details.
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::removeTip ()\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when a tool tip in this group is hidden. See the QToolTipGroup documentation for an example of use.
.PP
See also showTip().
.PP
Example: helpsystem/mainwindow.cpp.
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::setDelay ( bool )\fC [slot]\fR"
Sets whether the display of the group text is delayed. See the "delay" property for details.
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::setEnabled ( bool )\fC [slot]\fR"
Sets whether tool tips in the group are enabled. See the "enabled" property for details.
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::showTip ( const QString & longText )\fC [signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when one of the tool tips in the group is displayed. \fIlongText\fR is the extra text for the displayed tool tip.
.PP
See also removeTip().
.PP
Example: helpsystem/mainwindow.cpp.
.SS "Property Documentation"
.SH "bool delay"
This property holds whether the display of the group text is delayed.
.PP
If set to TRUE (the default), the group text is displayed at the same time as the tool tip. Otherwise, the group text is displayed immediately when the cursor enters the widget.
.PP
Set this property's value with setDelay() and get this property's value with delay().
.SH "bool enabled"
This property holds whether tool tips in the group are enabled.
.PP
This property's default is TRUE.
.PP
Set this property's value with setEnabled() and get this property's value with enabled().

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtooltipgroup.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtooltipgroup.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
