'\" t
.TH QVBox 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QVBox \- Vertical geometry management of its child widgets
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qvbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QHBox.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQVBox\fR ( QWidget * parent = 0, const char * name = 0, WFlags f = 0 )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QVBox widget provides vertical geometry management of its child widgets.
.PP
All its child widgets will be placed vertically and sized according to their sizeHint()s.
.PP
<center>
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
</center>
.PP
See also QHBox, Widget Appearance and Style, Layout Management, and Organizers.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QVBox::QVBox ( QWidget * parent = 0, const char * name = 0, WFlags f = 0 )"
Constructs a vbox widget called \fIname\fR with parent \fIparent\fR and
widget flags \fIf\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qvbox.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qvbox.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
