'\" t
.TH QWSMouseHandler 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QWSMouseHandler \- Mouse driver for Qt/Embedded
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qmouse_qws.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQWSMouseHandler\fR ( const QString & driver = QString::null, const QString & device = QString::null )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QWSMouseHandler\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBclearCalibration\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBcalibrate\fR ( QWSPointerCalibrationData * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBlimitToScreen\fR ( QPoint & pt )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmouseChanged\fR ( const QPoint & pos, int bstate )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint & \fBpos\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QWSMouseHandler class is a mouse driver for Qt/Embedded.
.PP
The mouse driver handles events from system devices and generates mouse events.
.PP
A QWSMouseHandler will usually open some system device in its constructor, create a QSocketNotifier on that opened device and when it receives data, it will call mouseChanged() to send the event to Qt/Embedded for relaying to clients.
.PP
See also Qt/Embedded.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QWSMouseHandler::QWSMouseHandler ( const QString & driver = QString::null, const QString & device = QString::null )"
Constructs a mouse handler. This becomes the primary mouse handler.
.PP
Note that once created, mouse handlers are controlled by the system and should not be deleted.
.PP
The \fIdriver\fR and \fIdevice\fR arguments are not used by this base class.
.SH "QWSMouseHandler::~QWSMouseHandler ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the mouse handler. You should not call this directly.
.SH "void QWSMouseHandler::calibrate ( QWSPointerCalibrationData * )\fC [virtual]\fR"
This method is reimplemented in the calibrated mouse handler to set calibration information (from, for instance, the Qtopia calibration screen). This version does nothing.
.SH "void QWSMouseHandler::clearCalibration ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
This method is reimplemented in the calibrated mouse handler to clear calibration information. This version does nothing.
.SH "void QWSMouseHandler::limitToScreen ( QPoint & pt )"
Ensures that the given point, \fIpt\fR is within the screen's boundaries, changing \fIpt\fR if necessary.
.SH "void QWSMouseHandler::mouseChanged ( const QPoint & pos, int bstate )"
When a mouse event occurs this function is called with the mouse's position in \fIpos\fR, and the state of its buttons in \fIbstate\fR.
.SH "const QPoint & QWSMouseHandler::pos () const"
Returns the mouse position.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qwsmousehandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qwsmousehandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
