'\" t
.TH QWSWindow 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QWSWindow \- Server-specific functionality in Qt/Embedded
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC#include <qwindowsystem_qws.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQWSWindow\fR ( int i, QWSClient * client )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QWSWindow\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwinId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QString & \fBname\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QString & \fBcaption\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QWSClient * \fBclient\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRegion \fBrequested\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRegion \fBallocation\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisVisible\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisPartiallyObscured\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisFullyObscured\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBraise\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBlower\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBshow\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBhide\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetActiveWindow\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QWSWindow class provides server-specific functionality in Qt/Embedded.
.PP
When you run a Qt/Embedded application, it either runs as a server or connects to an existing server. If it runs as a server, some additional functionality is provided by the QWSServer class.
.PP
This class maintains information about each window and allows operations to be performed on the windows.
.PP
You can get the window's name(), caption() and winId(), along with the client() that owns the window.
.PP
The region the window wants to draw on is returned by requested(); the region that the window is allowed to draw on is returned by allocation().
.PP
The visibility of the window can be determined using isVisible(), isPartiallyObscured() and isFullyObscured(). Visibility can be changed using raise(), lower(), show(), hide() and setActiveWindow().
.PP
See also Qt/Embedded.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QWSWindow::QWSWindow ( int i, QWSClient * client )"
Constructs a new top-level window, associated with the client \fIclient\fR and giving it the id \fIi\fR.
.SH "QWSWindow::~QWSWindow ()"
Destructor.
.SH "QRegion QWSWindow::allocation () const"
Returns the region that the window is allowed to draw onto, including any window decorations but excluding regions covered by other windows.
.PP
See also requested().
.SH "const QString & QWSWindow::caption () const"
Returns the window's caption.
.SH "QWSClient * QWSWindow::client () const"
Returns the QWSClient that owns this window.
.SH "void QWSWindow::hide ()"
Hides the window.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isFullyObscured () const"
Returns TRUE if the window is completely obsured by another window or by the bounds of the screen; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isPartiallyObscured () const"
Returns TRUE if the window is partially obsured by another window or by the bounds of the screen; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isVisible () const"
Returns TRUE if the window is visible; otherwise returns FALSE.
.SH "void QWSWindow::lower ()"
Lowers the window below other windows.
.SH "const QString & QWSWindow::name () const"
Returns the window's name.
.SH "void QWSWindow::raise ()"
Raises the window above all other windows except "Stay on top" windows.
.SH "QRegion QWSWindow::requested () const"
Returns the region that the window has requested to draw onto, including any window decorations.
.PP
See also allocation().
.SH "void QWSWindow::setActiveWindow ()"
Make this the active window (i.e. sets the keyboard focus to this window).
.SH "void QWSWindow::show ()"
Shows the window.
.SH "int QWSWindow::winId () const"
Returns the window's Id.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qwswindow.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qwswindow.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
