'\" t
.TH QXmlErrorHandler 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlErrorHandler \- Interface to report errors in XML data
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBwarning\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBerror\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBfatalError\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlErrorHandler class provides an interface to report errors in XML data.
.PP
If you want your application to report errors to the user or to perform customized error handling, you should subclass this class.
.PP
You can set the error handler with QXmlReader::setErrorHandler().
.PP
Errors can be reported using warning(), error() and fatalError(), with the error text being reported with errorString().
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlDeclHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlEntityResolver, QXmlLexicalHandler, and XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::error ( const QXmlParseException & exception )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
A reader might use this function to report a recoverable error. A recoverable error corresponds to the definiton of "error" in section 1.2 of the XML 1.0 specification. Details of the error are stored in \fIexception\fR.
.PP
The reader must continue to provide normal parsing events after invoking this function.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to get the error message.
.SH "QString QXmlErrorHandler::errorString ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE.
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::fatalError ( const QXmlParseException & exception )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
A reader must use this function to report a non-recoverable error. Details of the error are stored in \fIexception\fR.
.PP
If this function returns TRUE the reader might try to go on parsing and reporting further errors; but no regular parsing events are reported.
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::warning ( const QXmlParseException & exception )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
A reader might use this function to report a warning. Warnings are conditions that are not errors or fatal errors as defined by the XML 1.0 specification. Details of the warning are stored in \fIexception\fR.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and
reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to
get the error message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlerrorhandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlerrorhandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
