'\" t
.TH QXmlEntityResolver 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlEntityResolver \- Interface to resolve external entities contained in XML data
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBresolveEntity\fR ( const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId, QXmlInputSource *& ret ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlEntityResolver class provides an interface to resolve external entities contained in XML data.
.PP
If an application needs to implement customized handling for external entities, it must implement this interface, i.e. resolveEntity(), and register it with QXmlReader::setEntityResolver().
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlDeclHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlErrorHandler, QXmlLexicalHandler, and XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QString QXmlEntityResolver::errorString ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE.
.SH "bool QXmlEntityResolver::resolveEntity ( const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId, QXmlInputSource *& ret )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function before it opens any external entity, except the top-level document entity. The application may request the reader to resolve the entity itself (\fIret\fR is 0) or to use an entirely different input source (\fIret\fR points to the input source).
.PP
The reader deletes the input source \fIret\fR when it no longer needs it, so you should allocate it on the heap with \fCnew\fR.
.PP
The argument \fIpublicId\fR is the public identifier of the external entity, \fIsystemId\fR is the system identifier of the external entity and \fIret\fR is the return value of this function. If \fIret\fR is 0 the reader should resolve the entity itself, if it is non-zero it must point to an input source which the reader uses instead.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and
reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to
get the error message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlentityresolver.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlentityresolver.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
