'\" t
.TH QXmlAttributes 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlAttributes \- XML attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlAttributes\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QXmlAttributes\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBindex\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBindex\fR ( const QString & uri, const QString & localPart ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBcount\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBlocalName\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBqName\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBuri\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( const QString & uri, const QString & localName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( const QString & uri, const QString & localName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBclear\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBappend\fR ( const QString & qName, const QString & uri, const QString & localPart, const QString & value )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlAttributes class provides XML attributes.
.PP
If attributes are reported by QXmlContentHandler::startElement() this class is used to pass the attribute values.
.PP
Use index() to locate the position of an attribute in the list, count() to retrieve the number of attributes, and clear() to remove the attributes. New attributes can be added with append(). Use type() to get an attribute's type and value() to get its value. The attribute's name is available from localName() or qName(), and its namespace URI from uri().
.PP
See also XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXmlAttributes::QXmlAttributes ()"
Constructs an empty attribute list.
.SH "QXmlAttributes::~QXmlAttributes ()\fC [virtual]\fR"
Destroys the attributes object.
.SH "void QXmlAttributes::append ( const QString & qName, const QString & uri, const QString & localPart, const QString & value )"
Appends a new attribute entry to the list of attributes. The qualified name of the attribute is \fIqName\fR, the namespace URI is \fIuri\fR and the local name is \fIlocalPart\fR. The value of the attribute is \fIvalue\fR.
.PP
See also qName(), uri(), localName(), and value().
.SH "void QXmlAttributes::clear ()"
Clears the list of attributes.
.PP
See also append().
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::count () const"
Returns the number of attributes in the list. This function is equivalent to length().
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::index ( const QString & qName ) const"
Looks up the index of an attribute by the qualified name \fIqName\fR.
.PP
Returns the index of the attribute or -1 if it wasn't found.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::index ( const QString & uri, const QString & localPart ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Looks up the index of an attribute by a namespace name.
.PP
\fIuri\fR specifies the namespace URI, or an empty string if the name has no namespace URI. \fIlocalPart\fR specifies the attribute's local name.
.PP
Returns the index of the attribute, or -1 if it wasn't found.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::length () const"
Returns the number of attributes in the list.
.PP
See also count().
.PP
Example: xml/tagreader-with-features/structureparser.cpp.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::localName ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's local name for the attribute at position \fIindex\fR. If no namespace processing is done, the local name is QString::null.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::qName ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's XML 1.0 qualified name for the attribute at position \fIindex\fR.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.PP
Example: xml/tagreader-with-features/structureparser.cpp.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's type for the attribute at position \fIindex\fR.
.PP
Currently only "CDATA" is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( const QString & qName ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Looks up an attribute's type for the qualified name \fIqName\fR.
.PP
Currently only "CDATA" is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( const QString & uri, const QString & localName ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Looks up an attribute's type by namespace name.
.PP
\fIuri\fR specifies the namespace URI and \fIlocalName\fR specifies the local name. If the name has no namespace URI, use an empty string for \fIuri\fR.
.PP
Currently only "CDATA" is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::uri ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's namespace URI for the attribute at position \fIindex\fR. If no namespace processing is done or if the attribute has no namespace, the namespace URI is QString::null.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.PP
Example: xml/tagreader-with-features/structureparser.cpp.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's value for the attribute at position \fIindex\fR.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( const QString & qName ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Looks up an attribute's value for the qualified name \fIqName\fR.
.PP
See also the namespace description.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( const QString & uri, const QString & localName ) const"
This is an overloaded member function, provided for convenience. It behaves essentially like the above function.
.PP
Looks up an attribute's value by namespace name.
.PP
\fIuri\fR specifies the namespace URI, or an empty string if the name has no namespace URI. \fIlocalName\fR specifies the attribute's local name.
.PP
See also the namespace description.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlattributes.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlattributes.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
