'\" t
.TH QXmlDeclHandler 3qt "2 February 2007" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlDeclHandler \- Interface to report declaration content of XML data
.SH SYNOPSIS
All the functions in this class are reentrant when Qt is built with thread support.</p>
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBattributeDecl\fR ( const QString & eName, const QString & aName, const QString & type, const QString & valueDefault, const QString & value ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBinternalEntityDecl\fR ( const QString & name, const QString & value ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBexternalEntityDecl\fR ( const QString & name, const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId ) = 0"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () = 0"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlDeclHandler class provides an interface to report declaration content of XML data.
.PP
You can set the declaration handler with QXmlReader::setDeclHandler().
.PP
This interface is based on the SAX2 extension DeclHandler.
.PP
The interface provides attributeDecl(), internalEntityDecl() and externalEntityDecl() functions.
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlEntityResolver, QXmlErrorHandler, QXmlLexicalHandler, and XML.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::attributeDecl ( const QString & eName, const QString & aName, const QString & type, const QString & valueDefault, const QString & value )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report an attribute type declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration for an attribute is reported.
.PP
The reader passes the name of the associated element in \fIeName\fR and the name of the attribute in \fIaName\fR. It passes a string that represents the attribute type in \fItype\fR and a string that represents the attribute default in \fIvalueDefault\fR. This string is one of "#IMPLIED", "#REQUIRED", "#FIXED" or QString::null (if none of the others applies). The reader passes the attribute's default value in \fIvalue\fR. If no default value is specified in the XML file, \fIvalue\fR is QString::null.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to get the error message.
.SH "QString QXmlDeclHandler::errorString ()\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE.
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::externalEntityDecl ( const QString & name, const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report a parsed external entity declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration for each entity is reported.
.PP
The reader passes the name of the entity in \fIname\fR, the public identifier in \fIpublicId\fR and the system identifier in \fIsystemId\fR. If there is no public identifier specified, it passes QString::null in \fIpublicId\fR.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to get the error message.
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::internalEntityDecl ( const QString & name, const QString & value )\fC [pure virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report an internal entity declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration is reported.
.PP
The reader passes the name of the entity in \fIname\fR and the value of the entity in \fIvalue\fR.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader stops parsing and
reports an error. The reader uses the function errorString() to
get the error message.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmldeclhandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2007 Trolltech ASA, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports help us to help you. Thank you.
.P
The definitive Qt documentation is provided in HTML format; it is
located at $QTDIR/doc/html and can be read using Qt Assistant or with
a web browser. This man page is provided as a convenience for those
users who prefer man pages, although this format is not officially
supported by Trolltech. 
.P
If you find errors in this manual page, please report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmldeclhandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (3.3.8).
